Linux commands
pwd:print working directory

ls: list all the items in a directory

ls -a: List all items including hidden items

cd: change directory

ls -l: show more information of the files 

ls -la: show more information of items including hidden items

. and .. show the relative paths of the directories

. : current directory

.. : Parent directory  
 
cd dir1/dir2 : takes down two child directories

cd ../.. : Takes up two parent directories

cd or cd ~ : navigate back to home directory

cd ~/dir1 : navigate to dir1 located in the home directory

mkdir 'dir name': create a directory

touch 'filename': create a file

open 'filename': open a file (use the app name need to be used to open the file before open)

cp 'old name' 'new name': make a copy of a file 

mv 'old file' 'new file': rename a file

mv 'file name' 'destination' : move a file into a new directory

 mv 'file name' ../'new file name' : rename and move a file 

cp -r subdir/ copydir/: copy subdir into copydir

mv subdir/../copydir : move copydir up one level and rename it as subdir

rm : remove a file
rm -r: delete a directory

rm -rf: delete a directory forcefully

find: display all the files and directories in that particular directory

find . -type -d: find all the directories in the particular directory

find . -type f -name: find all the files in the particular directory

find . -type f -name "filename": find the files with the particular name

find . -type f -name "test*": find all the files with the name test with a wildcard

find . -type f -iname "test*": find all the case insensitive files with the name test with a wildcard (use extra i for make it case insensitive)

find . -type f -mmin -10: Find files modified less than 10 minutes ago

find . -type f -mmin +10: Find files modified more than 10 minutes ago

find . -type f -mmin +1 -mmin -5: Find files modified more than 1 minutes ago and less than 5 minutes ago

find . -type f -mtime +10: Find files modified more than 10 days ago

amin, atime: access minutes and access time

cmin, ctime: change minutes and change time

find . -size +5M: Find everything over 5 MB under my current directory

find . -empty: find all the empty files

find . -perm 777: Find the files have 777 permission in the current directory

kill - end a process. includes the process id or the program name

useradd username - creates a new user

chmod - changes the mode of a file system object. files can have read, write, and execute permission

